PyCitySchools Data Analysis Report 
by Kirby Smith
September 29, 2023


In this challenge, I was asked to analyze code that would serve in "helping the school board and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities". By looking at data related to student passing rates, specifically in the categories of math and reading, I was able to see correlations in the data. The school board and mayor would benefit from investing more time and attention to what charter schools are getting "right" and what can be done to increase the amount of resources at the lower performing schools in the data analysis. The data indicates that the more money spent per student does not equate to higher passing rates, so leadership should increase their attention as to how the limitedly funded schools are having increased passing rates. 


Although a lot of factors can go into a schools passing rates, the data did indicate that there was a negative correlation with the budget and passing rate data. When the school had an increase in budget spending, they would also show decreased passing percentage rates for students. The opposite is also true, that the less money a school has, the higher the passing percentage rates are. With the lowest school student funding being charter schools, how are they distributing those funds and having an increase in passing rates? Where is the money going with the higher student funding?

The data also indicated that the charter schools have a higher passing percentage rate than the district students. This could be an area for the school board to focus on and potentially imitate what the charter schools are doing to support their students better. 

In regards to school size, there was an inverse relationship between school size and performance. The larger the school, the lower the passing rates. The school board could research exactly what is happening when a school goes beyond the "medium" category that is so negatively impacting the student passing rates. 
